In this tutorial, we will list all of the file formats supported by the current version of the library.  This tutorial assumes a basic understanding of JavaScript.

This page includes examples that you can try in the developer console.  Open it now by pressing _ctrl + shift + C_ (_Apple + shift + C_ on Mac), and clicking _Console_.

## Currently-supported formats

You shouldn't normally deal with file formats directly.  [The diary objects tutorial]{@tutorial Using diary objects} explains how to load diaries and automatically detect formats.  But it can occasionally be useful to access the list of formats.  For example, your app might want to display a list of supported formats:

<ol id="currently-supported-formats">
<li>(Please enable JavaScript to see the list of formats)</li>
</ol>

This list was generated by examining the `sleep_diary_formats` variable.  To see the variable itself, open the developer console by pressing _ctrl + shift + C_ (_Apple + shift + C_ on Mac), then type:

```javascript
console.log(sleep_diary_formats);
```

You can use this in your programs just like any other variable.  For example, the list above was generated by this page's JavaScript.

Here are the meanings of each member in a format definition:

* `title` is the user-facing title for the format
* `name` is the name the code uses internally to refer to this format
* `url` is a URL with more information about the format
* `logo` is a URL containing an image associated with the file format
* `icon` is the name of an associated icon in a common icon list (at present, all icons begin with `mdi-`, indicating [Material Design Icons](https://materialdesignicons.com/))
* `extension` is the default file extension for files in this format
* `constructor` is the constructor used to generate files of this format - you should not need to use this

<script src="../sleepdiary-library.js"></script>
<script>

document.getElementById("currently-supported-formats").innerHTML = (
    sleep_diary_formats.map(function(format) {
        return (
            '<li>Title: ' + format.title +
              '<ul>' +
                '<li>Name: ' + format.name + '</li>' +
                '<li>URL: <a href="' + format.url + '">' + format.url + '</a></li>' +
                '<li>Extension: ' + format.extension + '</li>' +
                '<li>Constructor: <code>Function()</code></li>' +
              '</ul>' +
            '</li>'
        );
    }).join('')
);

</script>
